New article "Call native-side WinRT code from web-side code" (#1910)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/winrt-from-js.md

1. Click in the main part of the WebView2 sample app window to give it focus, and then press `Ctrl+Shift+I` to open Microsoft Edge DevTools.  Or, right-click the page, and then select **Inspect**.  The Microsoft Edge DevTools window opens.

1. If the Microsoft Edge DevTools window isn't visible, press `Alt+Tab` to display the DevTools window.

1. Under the **Console** pane of DevTools, paste the following code to confirm that your host app's web-side code can call the app's host object's methods.  To do this, call `Language.displayName`, as follows:

   ```javascript
   (new chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.Windows.Globalization.Language("en-US")).displayName
   ```

   The **Console** outputs `English (United States)`, or another language, demonstrating that your app's host-side code can be called from web-side code.

   ![Using the DevTools Console to test calling native-side code from web-side code.](winrt-from-js-images/devtools-console-calling-native-side-code.png)

1. Close the UWP sample app.  The DevTools window also closes.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## WebView2 Properties available in the WinRTAdapter Property Pages

> 

Author: @jasonstephen15 - Doc these property rows from command-line help strings?  re: WebView2 Properties available in the WinRTAdapter Property Pages

---
title: Call native-side WinRT code from web-side code
description: How to pass WinRT host objects to JavaScript using the AddHostObjectToScript API for WebView2 apps.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 05/02/2022
---
# Call native-side WinRT code from web-side code

> Your web-side JavaScript code can access the methods and properties of your WinRT host app, by using the _WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool_.  (For short, this is sometimes called the _WV2WinRT_ tool.)  For more information about why you'd want to do this, see the introduction of [Call native-side code from web-side code](hostobject.md).

Reviewer: I think "wv2winrt" is now the official name of the tool. It matches the pattern and casing for cppwinrt and rnwinrt.

This article walks you through the following main steps:

> *  Create a **WinRTAdapter** project especially to contain the _WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool_.

Reviewer: Is "contain" the best word here? The project does use the tool but it doesn't _contain_ it in the sense of having any binary linked to the output.

In pure technical terms, if that helps, the project builds a library out of code generated by running the tool. This generated code allows WinRT APIs to be exposed in a WebView.

*  Run the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool to generate C++/WinRT source code for selected namespaces or classes.

> *  In the WinUI 2 (UWP) sample WebView2 browser app project (**webview2_sample_uwp**), call `AddHostObjectToScript`. 

Author: for now, at bottom of page, I'm adding section: 
```
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## API Reference overview

* WinRT: [ICoreWebView2Interop::AddHostObjectToScript Method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/interop/icorewebview2interop#addhostobjecttoscript)
<!-- clickable: https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/interop/icorewebview2interop#addhostobjecttoscript -->
* Win32: [ICoreWebView2::AddHostObjectToScript method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2#addhostobjecttoscript)
<!-- clickable: https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2#addhostobjecttoscript -->
* .NET: [CoreWebView2.AddHostObjectToScript Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.addhostobjecttoscript)
<!-- clickable: https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.addhostobjecttoscript -->
```

> *  In the WinUI 2 (UWP) sample WebView2 browser app project (**webview2_sample_uwp**), call `AddHostObjectToScript`. 

Author: @Syul968 - 
for now, at bottom of page, I'm adding the below section with multiple links.  I think the first link is correct but inadequate, it mentions the 2nd link w/o providing it.
```
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## API Reference overview

* WinRT: [ICoreWebView2Interop::AddHostObjectToScript Method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/interop/icorewebview2interop#addhostobjecttoscript)
<!-- clickable: https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/interop/icorewebview2interop#addhostobjecttoscript -->
* Win32: [ICoreWebView2::AddHostObjectToScript method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2#addhostobjecttoscript)
<!-- clickable: https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2#addhostobjecttoscript -->
* .NET: [CoreWebView2.AddHostObjectToScript Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.addhostobjecttoscript)
<!-- clickable: https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.addhostobjecttoscript -->
```

> *  In the WinUI 2 (UWP) sample WebView2 browser app project (**webview2_sample_uwp**), call `AddHostObjectToScript`. 

Reviewer: I can't see this section in the renderer document. Are these links going to be embedded in the document's body?

I would also have expected "You can read more about that in the AddHostObjectToScript documentation" to contain a link, but in the preview, there's nothing I can click to get to the APIs documentation. This is the API doc: `https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2#addhostobjecttoscript`

> *  In the WinUI 2 (UWP) sample WebView2 browser app project (**webview2_sample_uwp**), call `AddHostObjectToScript`. 

Reviewer: Also, in the original comment I was referring to having a link to the WebView2 WinUI2 sample app: `https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Samples/tree/main/SampleApps/webview2_sample_uwp`.

> *  In the WinUI 2 (UWP) sample WebView2 browser app project (**webview2_sample_uwp**), call `AddHostObjectToScript`. 

Author: @Syul968 - I moved the API Ref links into See Also section at bottom.  
At the present line, I'm changing to something like:
```
1. Call [AddHostObjectToScript](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2#addhostobjecttoscript), in the WinUI 2 (UWP) sample WebView2 browser app project, [WebView2Samples > webview2_sample_uwp](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Samples/tree/main/SampleApps/webview2_sample_uwp).
```
if 404, remove "review" from URL.

The WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool is needed when projecting WinRT objects, because WinRT by default doesn't support `iDispatch`, which WebView2's Win32 and .NET platforms support.

For .NET, see [Call native-side code from web-side code](hostobject.md) instead of this article.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Let's get started!

First let's find a native object (class) that we're interested in calling from JavaScript code.  For this example, we'll use the WinRT `Language` class, which is in the `Windows.Globalization` namespace, for Windows UWP applications.  The [Language Class](/uwp/api/windows.globalization.language) enables getting information from the client's native OS.

In the WebView2 host app, the web-side JavaScript code can then access properties and methods on the `Language` object that's in the native-side code.  At the end of this example walkthrough, you'll use the **Console** of Microsoft Edge DevTools to test reading the host's `displayName` property of the `Language` class:

```javascript

> (new chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.Windows.Globalization.Language("en-US")).displayName

Reviewer: Accessing the host object can be done as setup for the script, which is also what we expect devs to do. Actual calls to projected objects would look more like:
```javascript
// Somewhere early in setup:
const Windows = chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.Windows;

(new Windows.Globalization.Language("en-US")).displayName;
```

```

The **Console** will then output `English (United States)`, or another language display name, demonstrating that you've called native-side WinRT code from web-side JavaScript code:

![Use the DevTools Console to test calling native-side code from web-side code.](winrt-from-js-images/devtools-console-calling-native-side-code.png)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 1: Clone the repo and build the WebView2 UWP sample

1. If Visual Studio 2015 or later is not already installed, in a separate window or tab, see [Install Visual Studio](../how-to/machine-setup.md#install-visual-studio) in _Set up your Dev environment for WebView2_.  Follow the steps in that section, and then return to this page and continue the steps below.

1. If a preview channel of Microsoft Edge (Beta, Dev, or Canary) is not already installed, in a separate window or tab, see [Install a preview channel of Microsoft Edge](../how-to/machine-setup.md#install-a-preview-channel-of-microsoft-edge) in _Set up your Dev environment for WebView2_.  Follow the steps in that section, and then return to this page and continue the steps below.

>    If you have your own app code base already, you can open that project in Visual Studio, instead of the following sample:

Reviewer: Why is this there a colon `:` at the end?

1. In Visual Studio, select **Debug** > **Start Debugging**.  This first builds the **webview2_sample_uwp** project, and then runs the baseline version of the project.  The **WebView2 WinUI 2 UWP Sample** window opens.

   ![The WebView2 WinUI 2 UWP Sample window.](winrt-from-js-images/webview2-winui-2-uwp-sample-app-window.png)

1. Close the **WebView2 WinUI 2 UWP Sample** window.

In case you need more information, see detailed steps in these pages, and then continue below:
* [WebView2 sample: WinUI 2 (UWP) browser app](../samples/webview2_sample_uwp.md) - steps to open, compile, and run the sample app.
* [Get started with WebView2 in WinUI 2 (UWP) apps (public preview)](../get-started/winui2.md) - setting up a basic WebView2 app.
* [GitHub > WebView2Samples repo > webview2_sample_uwp](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Samples/tree/master/SampleApps/webview2_sample_uwp)
* [Set up your Dev environment for WebView2](machine-setup.md) - details about setting up prerequisites.

<!-- =============================================== -->
## Step 2. Add a WinRTAdapter project to contain the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool

> <!-- delete paragraph? why would you want to do this? -->

Author: @david-risney  @jasonstephen15 - delete paragraph? why would you want to do this?

1. In the **NuGet Package Manager** window, in the **Search** box, enter **Windows Implementation Library**, and then select the **Windows Implementation Library** card:

   ![NuGet Package Manager, selecting the 'Windows Implementation Library' package.](winrt-from-js-images/pkg-mgr-wil.png)

1. Click the **Install** button.

WIL is now installed for the **WinRTAdapter** project.  Windows Implementation Library (WIL) is a header-only C++ library to make using COM coding for Windows easier.  It provides readable, type-safe C++ interfaces for Windows COM coding patterns.

<!-- =============================================== -->
## Step 4. Install WebView2 prerelease SDK, for WinRTAdapter project

In the WinRTAdapter project, also install a prerelease version of the WebView2 SDK, as follows:

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **WinRTAdapter** project, and then select **Manage NuGet Packages**.  The NuGet Package Manager window opens.

1. Select the **Include prerelease** checkbox.

1. In the **Search** box, enter **WebView2**.

1. Click the **Microsoft.Web.WebView2** card.  Detailed info appears in the middle area of the window.

> 1. In the **Version** drop-down, select a **prerelease** version of the WebView2 SDK.  Note which version number you select.

Reviewer: Note: the version must be 1.0.1243.0 or higher.

<!-- =============================================== -->
## Step 6. Generate source code for selected host API items

Next, configure the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool, to incorporate the WinRT classes that you want to use.  This generates source files that will then be compiled, rather than adding a `#` include of entire header files.     Generating code for these API items will enable your web-side JavaScript code to call these API items.

In the example steps below, we'll specify two `Windows` namespaces, and the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool will generate source code for only those namespaces:
*  `Windows.System.UserProfile` <!-- why add Windows.System.UserProfile? -->
*  `Windows.Globalization.Language`

Later, when the sample app is running, you'll call these API items from the **Console** of DevTools, to demonstrate that these specified host-side API items can be called from web-side code.

In this walkthrough, specify two `Windows` namespaces, as follows:

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **WinRTAdapter** project, and then select **Properties**.  The **WinRTAdapter Property Pages** dialog opens.

1. On the left, select **Common Properties** > **WebView2**.

> 1. Set **Use the WV2WinRT tool** to **Yes**.

Reviewer: "Use WebView2 WinRT APIs" should be set to "No". This is so the SDK doesn't copy the WebView2 WinRT component to the project's output. This `WinRTAdapter` project isn't calling any WebView2 WinRT APIs, so it doesn't need the WinRT component.

   ```csharp
   private async void InitializeWebView2Async()
   {
      await WebView2.EnsureCoreWebView2Async();
      var dispatchAdapter = new WinRTAdapter.DispatchAdapter();
      WebView2.CoreWebView2.AddHostObjectToScript("Windows", dispatchAdapter.WrapNamedObject("Windows", dispatchAdapter));
   }
   ```
    
1. In the `MainPage` constructor, above the `StatusUpdate("Ready");` line, add the following code:

   ```csharp
   InitializeWebView2Async();
   ```

1. Right-click the **webview2_sample_uwp** project, and then select **Set as startup project**.

1. Press `Shift+Ctrl+S` to save all files.

1. Press `F5` to run the sample app.  The **WebView2 WinUI 2 UWP Sample** window opens.

   ![The WebView2 WinUI 2 UWP Sample window.](winrt-from-js-images/webview2-winui-2-uwp-sample-app-window.png)

The host app's web-side code, including DevTools **Console**, can now access properties and methods of the specified namespaces or classes of the host object.

<!-- =============================================== -->
## Step 9. Call properties and methods on the host object from web-side JavaScript

> Next, use the DevTools **Console** to demonstrate that web-side code can potentially call the included, specified host-side API items.

Reviewer: Why is this "potentially"?

1. If the Microsoft Edge DevTools window isn't visible, press `Alt+Tab` to display the DevTools window.

1. In the **Console** of DevTools, paste the following code:

   ```javascript
   (new chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.Windows.Globalization.Language("en-US")).displayName
   ```

   The **Console** outputs `English (United States)`, or another language, demonstrating that your app's host-side code can be called from web-side code.

   ![Using the DevTools Console to test calling native-side code from web-side code.](winrt-from-js-images/devtools-console-calling-native-side-code.png)

1. Close the UWP sample app.  The DevTools window also closes.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## WebView2 Properties available in the WinRTAdapter Property Pages

This section is for reference.

![Properties that are listed in the WinRTAdapter Property Pages.](winrt-from-js-images/winrtadapter-property-pages.png)

For help about a property, click a property row.  Help is shown at the bottom of the dialog.  Command-line help also contains similar information.

> | WebView2 property | Description |

Author: @jasonstephen15 @david-risney - Do we need the section about the properties? Delete the half-empty table, or fill it in, dup'ing the dialog's UI/help?

Rendered: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/winrt-from-js?branch=pr-en-us-1910#webview2-properties-available-in-the-winrtadapter-property-pages

There's no point in having the table unless it has verbose content, like maybe from command line.

|---|---|
| Use WebView2 WinRT APIs |  |
| Loader preference |  |
| Use the wv2winrt tool |  |
| Output directory | Sets the path in which generated files will be written. |
| Output namespace | Sets the namespace to use for the generated WinRT class. |
| Use JavaScript case | Changes the generated code to produce methods names, property names, and so on that use the same casing style as Chakra JavaScript WinRT projection. The default is to produce names that match the winrt. |
| Verbosity | List some content to standard out including which files have been created and information about the include and exclude rules. |
| Explicit includes only |  |
| Disallow empty adapter |  |
| Wrap WebView2 types |  |
| Wrap system types |  |
| Platform references level |  |
| Additional WinMD references |  |
| Include filters |  |
| Exclude filters |  |

From the command line help:

> | WebView2 property | Description |

Reviewer: This is more like "wv2winrt parameter" than "WebView2 property".

---
title: Call native-side WinRT code from web-side code
description: How to pass WinRT host objects to JavaScript using the AddHostObjectToScript API for WebView2 apps.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 05/03/2022
---
# Call native-side WinRT code from web-side code

> Your web-side JavaScript code can access native-side methods and properties, by using the **wv2winrt** tool (the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool).  Using this tool, your JavaScript code can use methods and properties of any WinRT APIs, including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your web-side JavaScript code can access native-side WinRT methods and properties with the help of the **wv2winrt** tool (the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool).  Using this tool generates needed code files for your JavaScript code, and enables the use of methods and properties of any WinRT APIs, including:
```

*  Your WebView2 host app's WinRT APIs.
*  Windows WinRT APIs.
*  Third-party WinRT APIs.

For more information about why you'd want to have your web-side JavaScript code access the methods and properties of your WinRT host app, see the introduction of [Call native-side code from web-side code](hostobject.md).

This article walks you through the following main steps:

<!-- instance 1 of this paragraph: -->

> *  Create a **WinRTAdapter** project for the wv2winrt tool.  This project builds a library out of code that's generated by running the tool.  This generated code allows WinRT APIs to be exposed in the WebView2 control.

Reviewer 2: should these be a numbered list instead of bullets? Also can we reform the bullets to start with a active verb? 'Create' 'run' look good, but then the last 2 bullets don't follow the same format.

*  Run the wv2winrt tool to generate C++/WinRT source code for selected namespaces or classes.

*  In the WinUI 2 (UWP) sample WebView2 browser app project (**webview2_sample_uwp**), call `AddHostObjectToScript`.

*  Your web-side JavaScript code, and the DevTools console, then calls methods and properties on the host object.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## WinRT vs. .NET

> This article is for the WinRT WebView2 APIs, not for the .NET WebView2 APIs.  The C# code in this article will build, but not run, for the .NET WebView2 APIs.  If you were to call `AddHostObjectToScript` using this article's C# code for .NET WebView2 APIs, that would produce an error message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This article is for WinRT WebView2 APIs, not for .NET WebView2 APIs.  The C# code in this article will build, but not run, for .NET WebView2 APIs. Calling `AddHostObjectToScript` using this article's C# code for .NET WebView2 APIs would produce an error message.
```

The wv2winrt tool (the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool) is needed when projecting WinRT objects, because WinRT by default doesn't support `IDispatch`, which WebView2's Win32 and .NET platforms support.

> For .NET, see [Call native-side code from web-side code](hostobject.md) instead of this article.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For .NET use of AddHostObjectToScript, see [Call native-side code from web-side code](hostobject.md) instead of this article.
```

Your web-side JavaScript code can access native-side WinRT methods and properties, with the help of the **wv2winrt** tool (the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool).  The **wv2winrt** tool generates needed code files for your JavaScript code, and enables using methods and properties of any WinRT APIs, including:

*  Your WebView2 host app's WinRT APIs.
*  Windows WinRT APIs.
*  Third-party WinRT APIs.

For more information about why you'd want to have your web-side JavaScript code access the methods and properties of your WinRT host app, see the introduction of [Call native-side code from web-side code](hostobject.md).

This article walks you through the following main steps:

<!-- instance 1 of this paragraph: -->
1. Create a **WinRTAdapter** project for the wv2winrt tool.  This project builds a library out of code that's generated by running the tool.  This generated code allows WinRT APIs to be exposed in the WebView2 control.

1. Run the wv2winrt tool to generate C++/WinRT source code for selected namespaces or classes.

1. Call `AddHostObjectToScript`, in the WinUI 2 (UWP) sample WebView2 browser app project (**webview2_sample_uwp**).

> 1. Call methods and properties on the host object from your web-side JavaScript code (or from the DevTools **Console**).

Reviewer 3: It looks weird to bold just the word Console out of 'DevTools Console'. Should it be this?
```suggestion
1. Call methods and properties on the host object from your web-side JavaScript code (or from the **DevTools Console**).
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## WinRT vs. .NET

This article is for WinRT WebView2 APIs, not for .NET WebView2 APIs.  The C# code in this article will build, but not run, for .NET WebView2 APIs.  Calling `AddHostObjectToScript` using this article's C# code for .NET WebView2 APIs would produce an error message.

> The wv2winrt tool (the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool) is needed when projecting WinRT objects, because WinRT by default doesn't support `IDispatch`, which WebView2's Win32 and .NET platforms support.

Reviewer 3: IDispatch is a way to dynamically inspect (discover methods, properties, events) and interact (call methods, get or set properties, subscribe and receive events) with COM objects. We need wv2winrt because WinRT doesn't have IDispatch or anything like IDispatch. We wouldn't have needed to make wv2winrt if WinRT had something else that let us accomplish the same thing as what IDispatch does.

```suggestion
The wv2winrt tool (the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool) is needed when projecting WinRT objects, because WinRT doesn't support `IDispatch` or any other mechanism to dynamically inspect and interact with WinRT objects, which WebView2's Win32 and .NET platforms support.
```

For .NET use of `AddHostObjectToScript`, see [Call native-side code from web-side code](hostobject.md) instead of this article.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Let's get started!

> First let's find a native object (class) that we're interested in calling from JavaScript code.  For this example, we'll use the WinRT `Language` class, which is in the `Windows.Globalization` namespace, for Windows UWP applications.  The [Language Class](/uwp/api/windows.globalization.language) enables getting information from the client's native OS.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First let's find WinRT APIs that we're interested in calling from JavaScript code.  For this example, we'll use the WinRT `Language` class, which is in the `Windows.Globalization` namespace, for Windows UWP applications.  The [Language Class](/uwp/api/windows.globalization.language) enables getting language information from the client's native OS.
```

In the **webview2_sample_uwp** project, install the same prerelease version of the WebView2 SDK as you installed for the **WinRTAdapter** project, as follows:

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **webview2_sample_uwp** project, and then select **Manage NuGet Packages**.  The NuGet Package Manager window opens.

1. Select the **Include prerelease** checkbox.

1. In the **Search** box, enter **WebView2**.

1. Click the **Microsoft.Web.WebView2** card.  Detailed information appears in the middle area of the window.

1. In the **Version** drop-down, select a **prerelease** version of the WebView2 SDK.  The version must be 1.0.1243.0 or higher.  This needs to be the same version as for the **WinRTAdapter** project.

1. Click the **Install** button.

   The screen should look similar to the above section, except that now, **NuGet Package Manager** is open for the **webview2_sample_uwp** project instead of the **WinRTAdapter** project.

The WebView2 prerelease SDK is now installed for the **webview2_sample_uwp** project.

<!-- =============================================== -->
## Step 6. Generate source code for selected host API items

> Next, configure the wv2winrt tool (the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool), to incorporate the WinRT classes that you want to use.  This generates source files that will then be compiled, rather than adding a `#` include of entire header files.  Generating code for these API items enables your web-side JavaScript code to call these API items.

Reviewer 3: The 'rather than adding a `#` include of entire header files' seems to maybe be referencing how C++/WinRT works? Without context it seems strangely out of place here and maybe is OK to remove.

> Next, configure the wv2winrt tool (the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool), to incorporate the WinRT classes that you want to use.  This generates source files that will then be compiled, rather than adding a `#` include of entire header files.  Generating code for these API items enables your web-side JavaScript code to call these API items.

Reviewer 3: API items is not a term I've heard or read before and seems strange. Can we just say 'APIs'? The term is also used later on.

```suggestion
Next, configure the wv2winrt tool (the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool), to incorporate the WinRT classes that you want to use.  This generates source files that will then be compiled, rather than adding a `#` include of entire header files.  Generating code for these APIs enables your web-side JavaScript code to call these APIs.
```

> In the example steps below, we'll specify two `Windows` namespaces, and the wv2winrt tool will generate source code for only those namespaces:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the example steps below, we'll specify two `Windows` namespaces, and the wv2winrt tool will generate source code for only APIs under those namespaces:
```

Next, use the DevTools **Console** to demonstrate that web-side code can call the included, specified host-side API items.

1. Click in the main part of the WebView2 sample app window to give it focus, and then press `Ctrl+Shift+I` to open Microsoft Edge DevTools.  Or, right-click the page, and then select **Inspect**.  The Microsoft Edge DevTools window opens.

1. If the Microsoft Edge DevTools window isn't visible, press `Alt+Tab` to display the DevTools window.  If needed, move the DevTools window.

1. In the **Console** of DevTools, paste the following code, and then press `Enter`:

   ```javascript
   const Windows = chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.Windows;
   (new Windows.Globalization.Language("en-US")).displayName;
   ```

   The **Console** outputs a language name string, such as `English (United States)`, demonstrating that your app's host-side code can be called from web-side code.

   ![Using the DevTools Console to test calling native-side code from web-side code.](winrt-from-js-images/devtools-console-calling-native-side-code.png)

1. Close the UWP sample app.  The DevTools window also closes.

> 

Reviewer 3: We're missing the section of the wiki where we said 

# Make AddHostObjectToScript act more like Chakra WinRT projection

The AddHostObjectToScript feature defaults to using async and verbose proxies (you can read more about that in the [AddHostObjectToScript documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2?view=webview2-1.0.1072.54#addhostobjecttoscript) ). To make it act more like the Chakra WinRT projection you'll need to set a few properties:

* `chrome.webview.hostObjects.option.defaultSyncProxy` Proxies may either be async or sync. Normally we know when calling a method on a sync proxy that the result should also be a sync proxy. But in some cases we lose that context, like providing a reference to a function to native code and native code later calling that function. In these cases the proxy will be async unless this property is set.
 * `chrome.webview.hostObjects.options.forceAsyncMethodMatches` This is an array of regular expressions. If you call a method on a sync proxy, the method call will actually be performed asynchronously if the method name matches a string or regular expression in this array. Setting this to [/Async$/] will make any method ending with Async be an asynchronous method call. If an async method doesn't match here and isn't forced to be async, it will be invoked synchronously, blocking execution of the calling JavaScript and then returning the resolution of the promise rather than a promise.
 * `chrome.webview.hostObjects.options.ignoreMemberNotFoundError` If you attempt to get the value of a property of proxy and the property does not exist on the corresponding native class, you will get an exception. Unless you set this property to true in which case it will match Chakra WinRT projection behavior (and general JavaScript behavior) and return undefined with no error.

Chakra WinRT projection put the WinRT namespaces directly on the root object. AddHostObjectToScript places async root proxies on chrome.webview.hostObjects and sync root proxies on chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync. To access them where Chakra WinRT projection code would expect, you can assign them over to the root object. For example:

`window.Windows = chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.Windows;`

To ensure the JavaScript that sets all this up is executed before anything else, you can either add it to your JavaScript, or you can tell WebView2 to inject it for you before running any other script using the `CoreWebView2.AddScriptToExecuteOnDocumentCreatedAsync` method.

An all of the above example:

```
webView->CoreWebView2->AddScriptToExecuteOnDocumentCreatedAsync(
            LR"(
                (() => {
                    if (chrome && chrome.webview) {
                        console.log('Setting up WinRT projection options');
                        chrome.webview.hostObjects.options.defaultSyncProxy = true;
                        chrome.webview.hostObjects.options.forceAsyncMethodMatches = [/Async$/,/AsyncWithSpeller$/];
                        chrome.webview.hostObjects.options.ignoreMemberNotFoundError = true;

                        window.CortanaApp = chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.CortanaApp;
                        window.Cortana = chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.Cortana;
                        window.Windows = chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.Windows;
                    }
                })();
            )"));
```

Chakra WinRT projection puts the WinRT namespaces directly on the root object.  In contrast:
*  `AddHostObjectToScript` places async root proxies on `chrome.webview.hostObjects`.
*  `AddHostObjectToScript` places sync root proxies on `chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync`.
To access root proxies where Chakra WinRT projection code would expect, you can assign the root proxy WinRT namespace locations over to the root object. For example:

```javascript
window.Windows = chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.Windows;
```

To ensure that the JavaScript that sets all this up is executed before anything else, you can either add the above statement to your JavaScript, or you can tell WebView2 to inject the above statement for you before running any other script, by using the `CoreWebView2.AddScriptToExecuteOnDocumentCreatedAsync` method.

The following example demonstrates the above techniques:

> ```javascript

Reviewer 3: This code block is C++ not javascript. If we want to make it C# it would be the following (also removing the Cortana references)

```c#
webview.CoreWebView2.AddScriptToExecuteOnDocumentCreatedAsync(
            "(() => {" +
                    "if (chrome && chrome.webview) {" +
                        "console.log('Setting up WinRT projection options');" +
                        "chrome.webview.hostObjects.options.defaultSyncProxy = true;" +
                        "chrome.webview.hostObjects.options.forceAsyncMethodMatches = [/Async$/,/AsyncWithSpeller$/];" + 
                        "chrome.webview.hostObjects.options.ignoreMemberNotFoundError = true;"  + 
                        "window.Windows = chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.Windows;" +
                    "}" +
                "})();");
```

---
title: Call native-side WinRT code from web-side code
description: How to pass WinRT host objects to JavaScript using the AddHostObjectToScript API for WebView2 apps.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 05/03/2022
---
# Call native-side WinRT code from web-side code

Your web-side JavaScript code can access native-side WinRT methods and properties, with the help of the **wv2winrt** tool (the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool).  The **wv2winrt** tool generates needed code files for your JavaScript code, and enables using methods and properties of any WinRT APIs, including:

*  Your WebView2 host app's WinRT APIs.
*  Windows WinRT APIs.
*  Third-party WinRT APIs.

For more information about why you'd want to have your web-side JavaScript code access the methods and properties of your WinRT host app, see the introduction of [Call native-side code from web-side code](hostobject.md).

This article walks you through the following main steps:

<!-- instance 1 of this paragraph: -->

> 1. Create a **WinRTAdapter** project for the wv2winrt tool.  This project builds a library out of code that's generated by running the tool.  This generated code allows WinRT APIs to be exposed in the WebView2 control.

Reviewer: The two last sentences are included below, in the details for this step. It might be too much detail to have them here?

1. Click in the main part of the WebView2 sample app window to give it focus, and then press `Ctrl+Shift+I` to open Microsoft Edge DevTools.  Or, right-click the page, and then select **Inspect**.  The Microsoft Edge DevTools window opens.

1. If the Microsoft Edge DevTools window isn't visible, press `Alt+Tab` to display the DevTools window.  If needed, move the DevTools window.

1. In the DevTools Console, paste the following code, and then press `Enter`:

   ```javascript
   const Windows = chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.Windows;
   (new Windows.Globalization.Language("en-US")).displayName;
   ```

   The Console outputs a language name string, such as `English (United States)`, demonstrating that your app's host-side code can be called from web-side code:

   ![Using the DevTools Console to test calling native-side code from web-side code.](winrt-from-js-images/devtools-console-calling-native-side-code.png)

Congratulations!  You've finished the sample demonstration of calling WinRT code from JavaScript code.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Make AddHostObjectToScript act like Chakra WinRT projection

Reviewer: @jasonstephen15 are devs landing here expected to have enough context about what Chrakra is or why they'd want WebView2/wv2winrt to behave like it? If not, should a note be added that this is most relevant when migrating an existing codebase from XAML WebView?

Author: @Syul968 @david-risney - Are we recommending that all users consider using the code listing below, or only use that code if you are migrating an existing codebase (a WinRT WebView2 host app) from EdgeHTML XAML WinUI 2 WebView to WinUI 2 WebView2?

If we are recommending the below code for all users, then this section is of broader relevance than only when migrating an existing codebase (a WinRT WebView2 host app) from EdgeHTML XAML WinUI 2 WebView to WinUI 2 WebView2.  In that case, the "Chakra" reference might be relevant just to EdgeHTML/WebView users, but the section is relevant to everyone.  Can we downplay "Chakra" and remove it from h2 heading, and come up with a more direct h2 heading?

I need to know What Chrakra is - but more relevantly and directly, need to know why you'd want WebView2 and the wv2winrt tool to behave in a _certain way_ [_directly specify what way_] (which happens to be that of Chakra).

Reviewer 3: You could maybe say this is to make the AddHostObjectToScript JavaScript proxies act more like other JavaScript APIs. And additionally that end developers migrating from JavaScript WinRT projection in JavaScript UWP apps or the EdgeHtml based WebView, may want to use this to better match that behavior.

Author: @david-risney - trying eg:
```
If you want to make the `AddHostObjectToScript` JavaScript proxies act more like other JavaScript APIs, use the following approach.

Or, if you are migrating a host app from JavaScript WinRT projection in JavaScript UWP apps, or from the EdgeHTML-based WebView, you may want to use the following approach, to better match that previous behavior.<!-- This section is most relevant if you are migrating an existing codebase (a WinRT WebView2 host app) from EdgeHTML XAML WinUI 2 WebView to WinUI 2 WebView2. -->
```

Author: Improved heading & intro re: proxies.  @david-risney

> The `AddHostObjectToScript` feature defaults to using asynchronous and verbose proxies.  You can read more about that in the `AddHostObjectToScript` documentation; use the [See also](#see-also) links below.  To make `AddHostObjectToScript` act more like the Chakra WinRT projection, set the following properties:

Reviewer: It took me a while to make sense out of the second sentence and realize how to get to the docs. Would something like the below be clearer?

> To read more about `AddHostObjectToScript` and its default behavior, use the [See also](#see-also) links below.

1. Call methods and properties on the host object from your web-side JavaScript code (or from the DevTools Console).

##### Why WinRT and .NET use different approaches

This article is for WinRT WebView2 APIs, not for .NET WebView2 APIs.  The C# code in this article will build, but not run, for .NET WebView2 APIs.  Calling `AddHostObjectToScript` using this article's C# code for .NET WebView2 APIs would produce an error message.

The wv2winrt tool (the WebView2 WinRT JS Projection tool) is needed when projecting WinRT objects, because WinRT doesn't support `IDispatch` or any other mechanism to dynamically inspect and interact with WinRT objects, which WebView2's Win32 and .NET platforms support.  For .NET use of `AddHostObjectToScript`, see [Call native-side code from web-side code](hostobject.md) instead of this article.
<!--
`IDispatch` is a way to:
*  Dynamically inspect COM objects, to discover methods, properties, and events.
*  Interact with COM objects, to call methods, get or set properties, and subscribe to and receive events.
-->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Let's get started!

Reviewer 2: Consider changing to 'Objective, or End goal' or something like that. We are not getting started yet here, because you're still giving an overview in the paragraph below.

Author: ```
## End goal of this example

First, we'll pick some WinRT APIs that we're interested in calling from JavaScript code.
```
